There are many variations of "tafl" games in germanic and celtic traditions (the word tafl means simply "board ", but refers to a family of games). The s ize of the board vary in these games, along with the number of pieces, but the ratio of 2:1 pieces for attackers and defenders remains constant. Vikings have made this game popular in northern Europe, where it would be common from the 5th century until the 12th century, being then replaced by chess.The exact rules of the game did not survive to the 21st century, but it can be fairly recreated with archeological findings and the numerous mentions to the game found in the Norse sagas. We know the game was played well into the 18th century by the Saami people of Lapland , and the most extensive explanation of the rules available to us come from an explorer named Linneus, that has observed them playing in 1732.Since he did not speak the local language, though, his text is still a mbiguous and flawed. Besides the asymmetry of the game (in classic games, players most often control the same number of pieces), another of its di stinct fe at ures is the way pieces are captured - by sandwiching them among enemy pieces. This feature indicates the roman game Ludus Latrunculorum as a possible ancestor of tafl games. If this is true, then the ancient game of hnefatafl may have even older roots, because the roman game's roots go even deeper, trac ing back to greek games that date at least to the 9th century BCE.The best known variations of the hnefatafl are the alea evangelii , the tawlbwrdd, the brandubh, the a rd ri and the tablut. A game called seega, probably related to tafl games via the roman ludus latrunculorum, is still played today in Egypt and Somalia. For more information about the hnefatafl, visit http://www.fetlar.org/hnefatafl-world-championship. This site contains information about the Hnefatafl World Championship, held annually in Scotland.RulesTo play Hnefatafl, one player will take the role of attacker, leading a group of 24 warriors on a mission to capture the enemy king. Another will take the role of the defender and, with only 12 warriors, must escort the king to safety.Setting upThe attacker must place his pieces (those with swords) on the designated spaces on the edges of the board. The defender must place his pieces (those with shields) on the designated squares on the center of the board. His king, the piece with a singular shape, must be placed on the space on the very center of the board, on top of the crown.THE GAMEThe attacker is the first to move, and then they alternate turns. The goal of the attackers is to capture the enemy king (as explained below). The goal of the defenders is to lead their king to one of the refuge squares, in the corners of the board.MOVINGAll pieces, the king included, may move as many spaces as they wish, until they find an obstacle (be it another piece, a refuge square or the end of the board). Although all pieces may move across the central square, only the king may land there. The same thing is true about the refuge squares (the spaces on the corners of the board): only the king may land on those. If the king lands on any of the corner refuges, the game ends and the defender is the winner.CAPTURINGWhen a piece is captured, it is immediately removed from the game. To capture an enemy piece it is necessary to sandwich it with two allied pieces, a move known as "the hammer and anvil". It is not possi ble to capture if the allied pieces are not aligned vertically or horizontally, nor if they are aligned diagonally. A piece is also not captured if it itself have moved into the sandwiched square.It is possible to capture an enemy piece by sandwiching it with an allied piece and a a refuge square. It is also possible to do so by sandwiching it with an allied piece and the center square (where the crown is), but this will not work to capture a defender if the king is on that square. The above rules do not apply to the defending king. It can only be captured if it is surrounded by four attackers, one on each side (so it cannot be captured if it is on a square by the edge of the board). If the king is captured, the game ends and the attacker wins.The king may also capture, and it is possible to capture up to three pieces with one move.DRAW GAMEThe game ends in a draw if the same exact positions are repeated by the same exact pieces thrice. It also ends in a draw if any player has no valid moves.